# VOD-to-Live Service

This service is designed to use video assets from Video-on-Demand (VOD) content
to create live channels, providing a seamless experience for our users. It is
based on the beta version of the Unified Streaming Virtual Channels solution.

If you want to learn more about the responsibilities of VOD-to-Live Services in
a
[FAST solution](https://portal.axinom.com/mosaic/documentation/media/fast-channels),
please refer to the
[VOD-to-Live Service documentation](https://portal.axinom.com/mosaic/documentation/media/vod-to-live-service).

The root `package.json` contains Channel Service and VOD-to-Live Service
specific scripts: `build:fast`, `clean:fast`, and `dev:services:fast` scripts.
And the Jest tests are not run from the root either.

## Overview

The VOD-to-Live Service is a customizable component of the Mosaic Media solution
that enables a customizable integration of the
[Unified Virtual Channel](https://beta.docs.unified-streaming.com/documentation/virtual-channel/index.html)
service.

The Channel Service provides a way to publish channels and playlists to the
VOD-to-Live Service. The VOD-to-Live Service uses the data from the Channel
Service to generate a Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) file
that incorporates the videos from the playlist along with placeholder videos
acting as fillers for advertisement pods. The Unified Virtual Channel API is
used to create advanced virtual FAST channels from the VOD sources that
seamlessly transition from one source to another.

This diagram visualizes the flow that the VOD-to-Live service is performing:
![flow](https://github.com/Axinom/mosaic-media-template/assets/10724090/f615b6fc-b740-4dcf-b680-f652174d9270)

### Live stream creation

The main responsibility of the VOD-to-Live Service is to create a live stream
using the data published by the Channel Service. Once the validation is
successful and the channel or playlist is published, the VOD-to-Live Service
receives a RabbitMQ message containing an object representing the published
entity. The service then generates an SMIL file that can be sent to the Virtual
Channel Management API for live channel creation or update.

Here is an example of the JSON object received by the VOD-to-Live Service for a
Channel Published Event.

```json
{
  "title": "Example Channel",
  "description": "Example channel to show ...",
  "id": "3c1d6148-269a-4c76-aa4b-9d5cc065254e",
  "images": [
    {
      "height": 646,
      "id": "image-1",
      "path": "/transform/0-0/image-1.png",
      "type": "channel_logo",
      "width": 860
    }
  ],
  "placeholder_video": {
    "id": "video-1",
    "is_archived": false,
    "source_file_extension": ".mp4",
    "source_file_name": "source",
    "source_full_file_name": "placeholder_video.mp4",
    "source_location": "test",
    "source_size_in_bytes": 80788234,
    "title": "Placeholder Video",
    "video_encoding": {
      "audio_languages": ["en"],
      "caption_languages": [],
      "cmaf_size_in_bytes": 128070139,
      "dash_manifest_path": "https://example.net/video-output/example/cmaf/manifest.mpd",
      "length_in_seconds": 62,
      "encoding_state": "READY",
      "finished_date": "2022-11-25T12:26:41.396001+00:00",
      "hls_manifest_path": "https://example.net/video-output/example/cmaf/manifest.m3u8",
      "is_protected": false,
      "output_format": "CMAF",
      "output_location": "example",
      "preview_status": "NOT_PREVIEWED",
      "subtitle_languages": [],
      "title": "Placeholder Video",
      "video_streams": [
        {
          "bitrate_in_kbps": 300,
          "codecs": "H264",
          "display_aspect_ratio": "16:9",
          "file": "cmaf/video-H264-216-300k-video-avc1.mp4",
          "format": "CMAF",
          "frame_rate": 30,
          "height": 216,
          "label": "SD",
          "pixel_aspect_ratio": "1:1",
          "type": "VIDEO",
          "width": 384
          //...etc
        },
        {
          "bitrate_in_kbps": 128,
          "codecs": "AAC",
          "file": "cmaf/audio-en-audio-en-mp4a.mp4",
          "format": "CMAF",
          "label": "audio",
          "language_code": "en",
          "language_name": "English",
          "sampling_rate": 48000,
          "type": "AUDIO"
          //...etc
        }
      ]
    },
    "videos_tags": ["vod2live"]
  }
}
```

SMIL example generated by the VOD-to-Live Service to communicate with USP
Virtual Channel API.

```xml
<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<smil xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2001/SMIL20/Language">
	<head>
		<meta name="vod2live" content="true"/>
		<meta name="vod2live_start_time" content="2023-04-04T09:31:32.184Z"/>
		<meta name="splice_media" content="false"/>
		<meta name="timed_metadata" content="true"/>
		<meta name="mpd_segment_template" content="time"/>
		<meta name="hls_client_manifest_version" content="5"/>
		<meta name="mosaic_channel_id" content="example-channel-1"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<seq>
			<par>
				<audio src="https://example.net/video-output/example/cmaf/audio-en-AAC-2ch-128k-audio-en-mp4a.mp4"/>
				<video src="https://example.net/video-output/example/cmaf/video-H264-216-300k-video-avc1.mp4"/>
			</par>
		</seq>
	</body>
</smil>

```

#### DRM protection

DRM protection can be enabled for the channel's live stream by configuring the
channel for DRM and setting the appropriate DRM environment variables.

```
The service uses the Axinom DRM Key Service to request the DRM encryption key.
The DRM settings for the VOD-to-Live Service should be aligned with the DRM
settings used for the encryption of the used VOD assets.
```

When DRM is enabled DRM-protected VODs can be included in playlists. To decrypt
the protected content and encrypt the newly created live stream, CPIX files are
created and stored in Azure Storage. Access to the files is granted to the USP
using shared access signatures (SAS) with time-based limitations.

A new DRM key will be created for each Channel through the Axinom Key Service
API. The key identifier for the Channel will be sent in a RabbitMQ message of
the type `LiveStreamProtectionKeyCreatedEvent`. This identifier will be stored
with the Channel's metadata in Azure Storage.

#### Playlist prolongation

When the Playlist prolongation feature is enabled, the VOD-to-Live Service will
automatically extend the duration of any playlist that has a duration of less
than 24 hours, so that it is exactly 24 hours long. This is achieved by using
the channel's placeholder video to fill the remaining time.

## Setup

- Prerequisites: The
  [Unified Virtual Channel](https://beta.docs.unified-streaming.com/documentation/virtual-channel/gettingstarted/index.html)
  is set up.
- Follow the instructions from the `README.md` file in the solution root folder.
- Open the configuration file `.env` for the service and set missing values
  accordingly.

### Service configuration

#### General settings

`CATCH_UP_DURATION_IN_MINUTES` - This setting defaults to 60 minutes and adds
this duration to the playlist to create smoother transitions between playlists.

`PROLONG_PLAYLIST_TO_24_HOURS` - This feature is enabled by default and prolongs
the playlist duration to 24 hours.

`CHANNEL_PROCESSING_WAIT_TIME_IN_SECONDS` - By default, this setting is set to
10 minutes and determines the amount of time the VOD-to-Live service waits
before the channel goes live.

#### USP Virtual Channel API settings

`VIRTUAL_CHANNEL_MANAGEMENT_API_BASE_URL` - This is the mandatory setting for
the base URL of the Unified Virtual Channel Management API.

`VIRTUAL_CHANNEL_MANAGEMENT_API_KEY` - This is an optional API key used for
authorization with the Virtual Channel Management API.

`VIRTUAL_CHANNEL_ORIGIN_BASE_URL` - This is the mandatory setting for the base
URL of the Unified Streaming Origin or the CDN for Origin.

#### Azure Storage settings

`AZURE_STORAGE_CONNECTION` - This is the mandatory setting for the connection
string of the Azure storage.

`AZURE_BLOB_CONTAINER_NAME` - This is the mandatory setting. Name of the
container in Azure Storage where the service will store channel data.

#### DRM settings

To enable DRM protection of the live stream, fill out the configurations below
with the values available on the Axinom Portal.

`KEY_SERVICE_API_BASE_URL` - This setting is optional.

`KEY_SERVICE_TENANT_ID` - This setting is optional.

`KEY_SERVICE_MANAGEMENT_KEY` - This setting is optional.

`DRM_KEY_SEED_ID` - This setting is optional.
