README.md, before:

# Mosaic Media Template Solution

## About the Package

This package is part of the Axinom Mosaic development platform. More information
can be found at https://portal.axinom.com/mosaic.

## License

This mono-repo and all packages contained within it are licensed under the MIT
License. Check the LICENSE file for more details.

## Introduction

This repository contains the customizable parts of an Axinom Mosaic solution.
The code included in that repository can be either used as is or customized to
your specific requirements. The Mosaic libraries and services used by that
solution will be provided, updated and maintained by Axinom.

## Prerequisites

Before using the customizable solution make sure that you have the following
software installed:

- [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) of version 18.\* needs to be installed.
  - [Version 18.15.0](https://nodejs.org/download/release/v18.15.0/) is
    confirmed to work, where other versions may work as well, but would need to
    be tested
  - To install node.js via a package manager, see
    [node.js documentation](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).
- [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

This solution comes with a 'dockerized' infrastructure for local development. It
consists of PostgreSQL and pgAdmin. To start/stop the infrastructure run
`yarn infra:up` and `yarn infra:down` accordingly. See
[Prepare the solution](#prepare-the-solution) section below for additional info
on how to start the development infrastructure.

### Note for Windows users

You need to configure Docker for Windows to use Linux containers, see
[Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/#switch-between-windows-and-linux-containers).

### Note for Linux users

For a better development experience i.e. being able to run `docker` commands
without `sudo`, please see
[Docker post-installation steps for Linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).

## Prepare and connect the media-template solution

> :warning: This section is describing the steps on how to setup the solution
> for development purpose. If you're interested in how to prepare the services
> for production use please continue reading
> [here](#Package-the-services-for-production-use).

1. Run `yarn` to install all package dependencies for the workspace.
2. Run `yarn apply-templates` to create local copies of all `*.template` files
   in the solution.
3. Run `yarn infra:up` to start the development infrastructure.
4. Run `yarn db:reset` to create the databases for all services in the solution.
5. Set the following parameters in the root `.env` that are specific to your
   development environment:

   - `TENANT_ID`
   - `ENVIRONMENT_ID`
   - `RABBITMQ_VHOST`
   - `RABBITMQ_USER`
   - `RABBITMQ_PASSWORD`
   - `DEV_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CLIENT_ID`
   - `DEV_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CLIENT_SECRET`

   You will get these values from the 'Environment Connection' station on the
   Environment Administration Portal. For a description on how to create a new
   environment and getting the required connection values, please follow the
   steps described
   [here](#Prepare-the-developer-environment-and-get-connection-values).

6. Run `yarn setup` to initialize all the services in the solution.

## Run the solution

> :warning: This section is describing the steps on how to run the solution for
> development purpose. If you're interested in how to prepare the services for
> production use please continue reading
> [here](#Package-the-services-for-production-use).

Start the following commands in parallel (in separate terminals):

1. Run `yarn dev:libs` to start the compilation for the `media-messages` package
   in watch mode. Wait until this finishes before proceeding to avoid
   concurrency issues.
2. Run `yarn dev:services` to start the `media-service` & `catalog-service` in
   watch mode.
3. Run `yarn dev:workflows` to start the `media-workflows` in watch mode.
4. Open http://localhost:10053/ in your browser. You should see a grid with
   different workflow options (Movies, Videos, Images, TV shows, Seasons,
   Episodes).

## Run tests

Note that these steps take several minutes to complete.

1. Run `yarn test:reset:dbs` to initialize the testing databases.
2. Run `yarn test` to run the unit tests of the solution.

## Prepare the developer environment and get connection values

Before running the solution you need to create a Mosaic development environment.
In order to do this, go over to https://admin.service.eu.axinom.com and login
using the tenant id, username and password provided to you by Axinom.

After successful login, please select the "Environments" tile and then click the
'+'-Icon to create a new environment.

Provide a user name and select the "Development" template.
![](./readme/environment-creation.png)

The template will automatically create a management user on environment
creation. You can adjust the email and password for that user in the text boxes
below the template selection. By default it will match the email address of your
Environment Administration user.

The 'Management System Subdomain' is the subdomain under which the management
system will be publicly available. For development the management system will
primarily be used from 'localhost', so this value is not too important for now
and is also possible to be changed later still.

After hitting 'Proceed', the environment will be created and the 'Environment
Connection' screen will show up. You can use this screen to retrieve all the
information you need for connecting the media-template solution to the created
environment.

![](./readme/environment-connection.png)

## <a name="productionPackage"></a>Package the services for production use

The steps described above define how to setup and run the services on a local
development machine. In order to run the services on a server the following
procedure should be used.

### Generate a production build and docker image of the backend service

The solution comes with a ready-to-use `Dockerfile` at its root. It requires two
`ARG`s getting passed in:

- `PACKAGE_ROOT` - needs to be set to the relative path of the service that
  should be build. This is usually `services/{serviceName}/service` (e.g.
  `services/media/service`)
- `PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND` - needs to be set to the npm command that should be
  used to build the service. THis command needs to be defined on the root
  `package.json`. It is usually `build:{serviceName}-service:prod` (e.g.
  `build:media-service:prod`)

The process will then use the service's `build` script to create a production
build of the service and the `start` script to spin up the server, once the
Docker container starts up.

When running the Docker image, please make sure that you provide the expected
environment variables to the container, as on a production build it will not use
the `.env` files.

### Generate the workflows package

To generate a production build of a workflow package run the following command:

```sh
yarn build:{serviceName}-workflows:prod
```

This script will create a `.tgz` file on the repository root containing the
packaged workflows.

To deploy the workflows into an environment run a command like:

```sh
yarn run pilet publish --no-fresh --url "https://frontends.service.eu.axinom.net/v1/pilets/{tenantId}/{environmentId}" --api-key "{serviceAccountCredentials}" {packageFile}
```

Please note, that you need to provide the 'Base64 Encoded Credentials' of a
service account that has the `Pilets: Publish` permissions as `api-key`. This
value will be shown to you alongside with the other secrets when creating a
service account or when generating new secrets for an existing account.

Also make sure that you define all values the pilet expects to receive inside
the `app.meta.custom` by providing them as additional parameters on this command
like:

```sh
--fields.{key} {value}
```

You can find these keys and values usually in the `.env.template` file of the
workflow.

#### Unpublishing a workflow package

If you want to unpublish a previously published workflow package from the Mosaic
Micro Frontend Service, the following CLI command provided by the Mosaic CLI can
be used. The Service Account used to create the `api-key` must have
`Pilets: Delete` permission assigned.

```sh
yarn mosaic unpublish-pilet -t {tenantId} -e {environmentId} -a {api-key} -n {pilet-name} -m {micro-frontend-service-base-url}
```

## Deploying the services via Mosaic Hosting Service

If you're looking for a quick way to deploy a service in the Axinom Cloud, we
offer a `Quick Deploy` interactive script in the root package.

If you're looking to deploy your customized service in the Axinom Cloud using
your CI/CD pipelines, we recommend the `Advanced Deploy` option that uses the
`Mosaic CLI` where you can control the deployment steps with more precision via
the supplied arguments.

A detailed guide on how to deploy services via Mosaic Hosting Service can be
found at
https://portal.axinom.com/mosaic/documentation/deploy-a-customized-service-with-hosting-service

### Quick Deploy

1. Ensure you've configured the `Container Registry` for your environment in the
   Admin Portal under `Hosting Service`.
2. Ensure you've run `yarn setup:hosting` from the root of the
   mosaic-media-template. This will setup the required service-account for the
   quick-deploy script.
3. From the root of the mosaic-media-template, run `yarn quick-deploy` and
   follow the on-screen instructions.

### Advanced Deploy (using the Mosaic CLI)

The following sections list the individual steps needed to `Build` & `Deploy`
the customizable services from your CI/CD pipelines.

Note that the following pre-requisites are assumed:

1. You've configured the `Container Registry` for your environment in the Admin
   Portal under `Hosting Service`.
2. For each service you wish to host in the Axinom Cloud, you've created a
   `Customized Service` entity via the Admin Portal, and that the correct
   repository name has been set as expected.
3. You've run `yarn setup:hosting` from the root of the mosaic-media-template.
   This will setup the required service-account for using the Mosaic CLI
   commands shown below with the correct permissions.

   NOTE: `yarn util:load-vars` is used in the below commands to load values for
   certain CLI arguments from the `.env` file. If required, the CLI arguments
   can also be directly provided as necessary.

   NOTE: The final deployment step (i.e. the `mosaic hosting service deploy`
   step) can also be performed via the Admin Portal under Hosting Service.

#### Deploy Media Service

1. Build the service using the provided Dockerfile
   - CLI Command
     - `docker build -t <username>/<repository_name>:<tag> --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/media/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:media-service:prod .`
     - i.e.
       `docker build -t my-user/media-service:20230927.1 --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/media/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:media-service:prod .`
   - Ensure to use the same `<repository_name>` you decide on here, also in the
     `Customized Service` details station of the Admin Portal.
2. Push the container image to Docker Hub
   - CLI Command
     - `docker push <dockerhub_username>/<repository_name>:<tag>`
     - i.e. `docker push my-user/media-service:20230927.1`
3. Build the workflows of the media-service
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn build:media-workflows:prod`
   - This will produce a `.tgz` pilet artifact on the project root
4. Register the pilet artifact on the Mosaic Hosting Service
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting pilet register -i <custom-service-id> -p <path-to-workflow-build-artifact>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting pilet register -i media-service -p ./`
5. Upload the deployment manifest to the Mosaic Hosting Service
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i <custom-service-id> -p <path-to-deployment-manifest-yaml> -n <manifest-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i media-service -p ./services/media/service/mosaic-hosting-deployment-manifest.yaml -n media-service-manifest-20230927`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<manifest-name>`
6. Deploy the service with the specific artifacts (i.e. container image tag,
   pilet artifact, deployment manifest)
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i <custom-service-id> -t <tag> -p <workflow-package@version> -m <manifest-name> -n <deployment-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i media-service -t 20230927.1 -p media-workflows@1.0.1 -m media-service-manifest-20230927 -n media-service-deployment-20230927.1`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<deployment-name>`

#### Deploy Catalog Service

1. Build the service using the provided Dockerfile
   - CLI Command
     - `docker build -t <username>/<repository_name>:<tag> --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/catalog/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:catalog-service:prod .`
     - i.e.
       `docker build -t my-user/catalog-service:20230927.1 --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/catalog/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:catalog-service:prod .`
   - Ensure to use the same `<repository_name>` you decide on here, also in the
     `Customized Service` details station of the Admin Portal.
2. Push the container image to Docker Hub
   - CLI Command
     - `docker push <dockerhub_username>/<repository_name>:<tag>`
     - i.e. `docker push my-user/catalog-service:20230927.1`
3. Since this service has no workflows, we do not need to build them nor
   register them
4. Upload the deployment manifest to the Mosaic Hosting Service
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i <custom-service-id> -p <path-to-deployment-manifest-yaml> -n <manifest-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i catalog-service -p ./services/catalog/service/mosaic-hosting-deployment-manifest.yaml -n catalog-service-manifest-20230927`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<manifest-name>`
5. Deploy the service with the specific artifacts (i.e. container image tag,
   deployment manifest)
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i <custom-service-id> -t <tag> -m <manifest-name> -n <deployment-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i catalog-service -t 20230927.1 -m catalog-service-manifest-20230927 -n catalog-service-deployment-20230927.1`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<deployment-name>`

#### Deploy Entitlement Service

1. Build the service using the provided Dockerfile
   - CLI Command
     - `docker build -t <username>/<repository_name>:<tag> --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/entitlement/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:entitlement-service:prod .`
     - i.e.
       `docker build -t my-user/entitlement-service:20230927.1 --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/entitlement/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:entitlement-service:prod .`
   - Ensure to use the same `<repository_name>` you decide on here, also in the
     `Customized Service` details station of the Admin Portal.
2. Push the container image to Docker Hub
   - CLI Command
     - `docker push <dockerhub_username>/<repository_name>:<tag>`
     - i.e. `docker push my-user/entitlement-service:20230927.1`
3. Since this service has no workflows, we do not need to build them nor
   register them
4. Upload the deployment manifest to the Mosaic Hosting Service
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i <custom-service-id> -p <path-to-deployment-manifest-yaml> -n <manifest-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i entitlement-service -p ./services/entitlement/service/mosaic-hosting-deployment-manifest.yaml -n entitlement-service-manifest-20230927`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<manifest-name>`
   - **IMPORTANT:** The entitlement-service requires certain environment
     variables to be configured that are user specific (i.e. `GEOLITE` &
     `DRM Keys`). Therefore ensure that you've followed the necessary steps to
     retrieve these values and have updated the deployment manifest YAML with
     the correct values.
5. Deploy the service with the specific artifacts (i.e. container image tag,
   deployment manifest)
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i <custom-service-id> -t <tag> -m <manifest-name> -n <deployment-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i entitlement-service -t 20230927.1 -m entitlement-service-manifest-20230927 -n entitlement-service-deployment-20230927.1`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<deployment-name>`

## Development notes

- `zapatos` models will be generated after `yarn db:commit` but you can trigger
  the generator manually via `yarn internal:zapatos`.
- Run `yarn test:reset:dbs` before running `yarn test` in case new test files
  were created or existing ones renamed or moved.
- To obtain a development-time auth token for a service, run `yarn util:token`
  in that service's workspace. There should also be a corresponding permissions
  file under that service's `scripts/resources`. For a working example see
  `package.json` in the Media Service.

Commit message:

[AB#40605] Ingest of localizations is now supported (#211)
* feat: Ingest of localizations is now supported
[AB#40605]

* chore: pr review adjustments
[AB#40605]

README.md, after:

# Mosaic Media Template Solution

## About the Package

This package is part of the Axinom Mosaic development platform. More information
can be found at https://portal.axinom.com/mosaic.

## License

This mono-repo and all packages contained within it are licensed under the MIT
License. Check the LICENSE file for more details.

## Introduction

This repository contains the customizable parts of an Axinom Mosaic solution.
The code included in that repository can be either used as is or customized to
your specific requirements. The Mosaic libraries and services used by that
solution will be provided, updated and maintained by Axinom.

## Prerequisites

Before using the customizable solution make sure that you have the following
software installed:

- [node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) of version 18.\* needs to be installed.
  - [Version 18.15.0](https://nodejs.org/download/release/v18.15.0/) is
    confirmed to work, where other versions may work as well, but would need to
    be tested
  - To install node.js via a package manager, see
    [node.js documentation](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).
- [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

This solution comes with a 'dockerized' infrastructure for local development. It
consists of PostgreSQL and pgAdmin. To start/stop the infrastructure run
`yarn infra:up` and `yarn infra:down` accordingly. See
[Prepare the solution](#prepare-the-solution) section below for additional info
on how to start the development infrastructure.

### Note for Windows users

You need to configure Docker for Windows to use Linux containers, see
[Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/docker-for-windows/#switch-between-windows-and-linux-containers).

### Note for Linux users

For a better development experience i.e. being able to run `docker` commands
without `sudo`, please see
[Docker post-installation steps for Linux](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).

## Prepare and connect the media-template solution

> :warning: This section is describing the steps on how to setup the solution
> for development purpose. If you're interested in how to prepare the services
> for production use please continue reading
> [here](#Package-the-services-for-production-use).

1. Run `yarn` to install all package dependencies for the workspace.
2. Run `yarn apply-templates` to create local copies of all `*.template` files
   in the solution.
3. Run `yarn infra:up` to start the development infrastructure.
4. Run `yarn db:reset` to create the databases for all services in the solution.
5. Set the following parameters in the root `.env` that are specific to your
   development environment:

   - `TENANT_ID`
   - `ENVIRONMENT_ID`
   - `RABBITMQ_VHOST`
   - `RABBITMQ_USER`
   - `RABBITMQ_PASSWORD`
   - `DEV_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CLIENT_ID`
   - `DEV_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CLIENT_SECRET`

   You will get these values from the 'Environment Connection' station on the
   Environment Administration Portal. For a description on how to create a new
   environment and getting the required connection values, please follow the
   steps described
   [here](#Prepare-the-developer-environment-and-get-connection-values).

6. Run `yarn setup` to initialize all the services in the solution.

## Run the solution

> :warning: This section is describing the steps on how to run the solution for
> development purpose. If you're interested in how to prepare the services for
> production use please continue reading
> [here](#Package-the-services-for-production-use).

Start the following commands in parallel (in separate terminals):

1. Run `yarn dev:libs` to start the compilation for the `media-messages` package
   in watch mode. Wait until this finishes before proceeding to avoid
   concurrency issues.
2. Run `yarn dev:services` to start the `media-service` & `catalog-service` in
   watch mode.
3. Run `yarn dev:workflows` to start the `media-workflows` in watch mode.
4. Open http://localhost:10053/ in your browser. You should see a grid with
   different workflow options (Movies, Videos, Images, TV shows, Seasons,
   Episodes).

## Run tests

Note that these steps take several minutes to complete.

1. Run `yarn test:reset:dbs` to initialize the testing databases.
2. Run `yarn test` to run the unit tests of the solution.

## Prepare the developer environment and get connection values

Before running the solution you need to create a Mosaic development environment.
In order to do this, go over to https://admin.service.eu.axinom.com and login
using the tenant id, username and password provided to you by Axinom.

After successful login, please select the "Environments" tile and then click the
'+'-Icon to create a new environment.

Provide a user name and select the "Development" template.
![](./readme/environment-creation.png)

The template will automatically create a management user on environment
creation. You can adjust the email and password for that user in the text boxes
below the template selection. By default it will match the email address of your
Environment Administration user.

The 'Management System Subdomain' is the subdomain under which the management
system will be publicly available. For development the management system will
primarily be used from 'localhost', so this value is not too important for now
and is also possible to be changed later still.

After hitting 'Proceed', the environment will be created and the 'Environment
Connection' screen will show up. You can use this screen to retrieve all the
information you need for connecting the media-template solution to the created
environment.

![](./readme/environment-connection.png)

## <a name="productionPackage"></a>Package the services for production use

The steps described above define how to setup and run the services on a local
development machine. In order to run the services on a server the following
procedure should be used.

### Generate a production build and docker image of the backend service

The solution comes with a ready-to-use `Dockerfile` at its root. It requires two
`ARG`s getting passed in:

- `PACKAGE_ROOT` - needs to be set to the relative path of the service that
  should be build. This is usually `services/{serviceName}/service` (e.g.
  `services/media/service`)
- `PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND` - needs to be set to the npm command that should be
  used to build the service. THis command needs to be defined on the root
  `package.json`. It is usually `build:{serviceName}-service:prod` (e.g.
  `build:media-service:prod`)

The process will then use the service's `build` script to create a production
build of the service and the `start` script to spin up the server, once the
Docker container starts up.

When running the Docker image, please make sure that you provide the expected
environment variables to the container, as on a production build it will not use
the `.env` files.

### Generate the workflows package

To generate a production build of a workflow package run the following command:

```sh
yarn build:{serviceName}-workflows:prod
```

This script will create a `.tgz` file on the repository root containing the
packaged workflows.

To deploy the workflows into an environment run a command like:

```sh
yarn run pilet publish --no-fresh --url "https://frontends.service.eu.axinom.net/v1/pilets/{tenantId}/{environmentId}" --api-key "{serviceAccountCredentials}" {packageFile}
```

Please note, that you need to provide the 'Base64 Encoded Credentials' of a
service account that has the `Pilets: Publish` permissions as `api-key`. This
value will be shown to you alongside with the other secrets when creating a
service account or when generating new secrets for an existing account.

Also make sure that you define all values the pilet expects to receive inside
the `app.meta.custom` by providing them as additional parameters on this command
like:

```sh
--fields.{key} {value}
```

You can find these keys and values usually in the `.env.template` file of the
workflow.

#### Unpublishing a workflow package

If you want to unpublish a previously published workflow package from the Mosaic
Micro Frontend Service, the following CLI command provided by the Mosaic CLI can
be used. The Service Account used to create the `api-key` must have
`Pilets: Delete` permission assigned.

```sh
yarn mosaic unpublish-pilet -t {tenantId} -e {environmentId} -a {api-key} -n {pilet-name} -m {micro-frontend-service-base-url}
```

## Deploying the services via Mosaic Hosting Service

If you're looking for a quick way to deploy a service in the Axinom Cloud, we
offer a `Quick Deploy` interactive script in the root package.

If you're looking to deploy your customized service in the Axinom Cloud using
your CI/CD pipelines, we recommend the `Advanced Deploy` option that uses the
`Mosaic CLI` where you can control the deployment steps with more precision via
the supplied arguments.

A detailed guide on how to deploy services via Mosaic Hosting Service can be
found at
https://portal.axinom.com/mosaic/documentation/deploy-a-customized-service-with-hosting-service

### Quick Deploy

1. Ensure you've configured the `Container Registry` for your environment in the
   Admin Portal under `Hosting Service`.
2. Ensure you've run `yarn setup:hosting` from the root of the
   mosaic-media-template. This will setup the required service-account for the
   quick-deploy script.
3. From the root of the mosaic-media-template, run `yarn quick-deploy` and
   follow the on-screen instructions.

### Advanced Deploy (using the Mosaic CLI)

The following sections list the individual steps needed to `Build` & `Deploy`
the customizable services from your CI/CD pipelines.

Note that the following pre-requisites are assumed:

1. You've configured the `Container Registry` for your environment in the Admin
   Portal under `Hosting Service`.
2. For each service you wish to host in the Axinom Cloud, you've created a
   `Customized Service` entity via the Admin Portal, and that the correct
   repository name has been set as expected.
3. You've run `yarn setup:hosting` from the root of the mosaic-media-template.
   This will setup the required service-account for using the Mosaic CLI
   commands shown below with the correct permissions.

   NOTE: `yarn util:load-vars` is used in the below commands to load values for
   certain CLI arguments from the `.env` file. If required, the CLI arguments
   can also be directly provided as necessary.

   NOTE: The final deployment step (i.e. the `mosaic hosting service deploy`
   step) can also be performed via the Admin Portal under Hosting Service.

#### Deploy Media Service

1. Build the service using the provided Dockerfile
   - CLI Command
     - `docker build -t <username>/<repository_name>:<tag> --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/media/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:media-service:prod .`
     - i.e.
       `docker build -t my-user/media-service:20230927.1 --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/media/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:media-service:prod .`
   - Ensure to use the same `<repository_name>` you decide on here, also in the
     `Customized Service` details station of the Admin Portal.
2. Push the container image to Docker Hub
   - CLI Command
     - `docker push <dockerhub_username>/<repository_name>:<tag>`
     - i.e. `docker push my-user/media-service:20230927.1`
3. Build the workflows of the media-service
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn build:media-workflows:prod`
   - This will produce a `.tgz` pilet artifact on the project root
4. Register the pilet artifact on the Mosaic Hosting Service
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting pilet register -i <custom-service-id> -p <path-to-workflow-build-artifact>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting pilet register -i media-service -p ./`
5. Upload the deployment manifest to the Mosaic Hosting Service
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i <custom-service-id> -p <path-to-deployment-manifest-yaml> -n <manifest-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i media-service -p ./services/media/service/mosaic-hosting-deployment-manifest.yaml -n media-service-manifest-20230927`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<manifest-name>`
6. Deploy the service with the specific artifacts (i.e. container image tag,
   pilet artifact, deployment manifest)
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i <custom-service-id> -t <tag> -p <workflow-package@version> -m <manifest-name> -n <deployment-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i media-service -t 20230927.1 -p media-workflows@1.0.1 -m media-service-manifest-20230927 -n media-service-deployment-20230927.1`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<deployment-name>`
7. (Optional) In case Localizations are enabled - `media-service` service
   account shall be adjusted to include the `INGESTS_EDIT` permission for
   the`media-service` itself in the Admin Portal.

#### Deploy Catalog Service

1. Build the service using the provided Dockerfile
   - CLI Command
     - `docker build -t <username>/<repository_name>:<tag> --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/catalog/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:catalog-service:prod .`
     - i.e.
       `docker build -t my-user/catalog-service:20230927.1 --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/catalog/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:catalog-service:prod .`
   - Ensure to use the same `<repository_name>` you decide on here, also in the
     `Customized Service` details station of the Admin Portal.
2. Push the container image to Docker Hub
   - CLI Command
     - `docker push <dockerhub_username>/<repository_name>:<tag>`
     - i.e. `docker push my-user/catalog-service:20230927.1`
3. Since this service has no workflows, we do not need to build them nor
   register them
4. Upload the deployment manifest to the Mosaic Hosting Service
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i <custom-service-id> -p <path-to-deployment-manifest-yaml> -n <manifest-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i catalog-service -p ./services/catalog/service/mosaic-hosting-deployment-manifest.yaml -n catalog-service-manifest-20230927`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<manifest-name>`
5. Deploy the service with the specific artifacts (i.e. container image tag,
   deployment manifest)
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i <custom-service-id> -t <tag> -m <manifest-name> -n <deployment-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i catalog-service -t 20230927.1 -m catalog-service-manifest-20230927 -n catalog-service-deployment-20230927.1`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<deployment-name>`

#### Deploy Entitlement Service

1. Build the service using the provided Dockerfile
   - CLI Command
     - `docker build -t <username>/<repository_name>:<tag> --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/entitlement/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:entitlement-service:prod .`
     - i.e.
       `docker build -t my-user/entitlement-service:20230927.1 --build-arg PACKAGE_ROOT=services/entitlement/service --build-arg PACKAGE_BUILD_COMMAND=build:entitlement-service:prod .`
   - Ensure to use the same `<repository_name>` you decide on here, also in the
     `Customized Service` details station of the Admin Portal.
2. Push the container image to Docker Hub
   - CLI Command
     - `docker push <dockerhub_username>/<repository_name>:<tag>`
     - i.e. `docker push my-user/entitlement-service:20230927.1`
3. Since this service has no workflows, we do not need to build them nor
   register them
4. Upload the deployment manifest to the Mosaic Hosting Service
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i <custom-service-id> -p <path-to-deployment-manifest-yaml> -n <manifest-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting manifest upload -i entitlement-service -p ./services/entitlement/service/mosaic-hosting-deployment-manifest.yaml -n entitlement-service-manifest-20230927`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<manifest-name>`
   - **IMPORTANT:** The entitlement-service requires certain environment
     variables to be configured that are user specific (i.e. `GEOLITE` &
     `DRM Keys`). Therefore ensure that you've followed the necessary steps to
     retrieve these values and have updated the deployment manifest YAML with
     the correct values.
5. Deploy the service with the specific artifacts (i.e. container image tag,
   deployment manifest)
   - CLI Command
     - `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i <custom-service-id> -t <tag> -m <manifest-name> -n <deployment-name>`
     - i.e.
       `yarn util:load-vars mosaic hosting service deploy -i entitlement-service -t 20230927.1 -m entitlement-service-manifest-20230927 -n entitlement-service-deployment-20230927.1`
   - Ensure you provide a unique value for the `<deployment-name>`

## Development notes

- `zapatos` models will be generated after `yarn db:commit` but you can trigger
  the generator manually via `yarn internal:zapatos`.
- Run `yarn test:reset:dbs` before running `yarn test` in case new test files
  were created or existing ones renamed or moved.
- To obtain a development-time auth token for a service, run `yarn util:token`
  in that service's workspace. There should also be a corresponding permissions
  file under that service's `scripts/resources`. For a working example see
  `package.json` in the Media Service.
